[Music]
corsair gaming rgb keyboards feature
precision cherry mx rgb key switches for
16.8 million color per key backlighting
for virtually unlimited customization
click now to learn more
[Music]
so i don't know what was funnier about
the cherry factory tour the fact that we
showed up in letterhozen or the fact
that they had preemptively arranged for
two of their of the of the women in
their marketing department to show up in
um durndle in durham i think it was i'm
probably pronouncing that wrong but
durndle absolutely fantastic so they
were they were really good sports about
the whole thing i'm sure it was harder
to walk around their workplace dressed
like that than it was for us as
strangers to people would recognize them
and they're walking around in like heels
and dirndl
yeah at the office and then and then
they're with these two random dudes who
have like very low quality in some cases
ripping all over the place later jose
oh
oh man yeah my boxers were totally
showing oh definitely by the end of the
day yeah so the first step in the
completely unexpected like i mean
everything about these just felt over
engineered but we got to see the
acoustic chamber that they use in order
to validate not only the the loudness of
products but also the
sound signature of products which was
insane and just to make sure that it's
super accurate they have this this very
targeted microphone inside and foot and
a half ish uh thick padding on the
outside with this double door system
that he had to climb into well i looked
at it and i went well the microphone's
next to the switch in this case it was a
it was an mx rgb blue switch and i was
like well okay but how do you actually
press the button while having the door
closed so not being a german engineer he
assumes that you climb inside and press
it manually yourself every single time
turns out that wasn't the answer they
actually have a mechanical finger that
presses the switch over and over again
for uh for for validation but hey
whatever my solution would have worked
too
technically yes so it's not just for
validating that as they make running
changes and improvements to cherry mx
that the sound signature stays the same
but they do use it for that it's also
for certifying keyboards to be low noise
enough to to qualify for
blue angel certification which is like a
german government thing where if you
want to sell something to the german
government it has to pass the blue angel
certification so if the question was who
cares if you have a 20 decibel noise
floor
acoustic chamber for keyboards the
answer is
someone
the next stop in the tour was probably
my
my favorite part the environmental
chambers so they have this whole hallway
of machines that essentially torture
test keyboards from really torture tests
they had a new product in one of them
that was going through
a cycle of temperature and humidity
changes just to validate that in storage
it wouldn't be broken by any of
aforementioned
temperatures and and conditions and so
these things are capable of going
anywhere from minus 40 all the way up to
uh plus
180 degrees so why would that ever
matter uh apparently c freight is a big
deal because if you're if your cargo
container is at the top of the ship and
it's under the sun for a very long time
that that inner area within the metal is
going to get really hot kinds of things
you don't think of and then the the
chambers can also handle anywhere from
10 relative humidity all the way up to
98 relative humidity so of course they
uh they loaded one up at minus 25
degrees through one of their one of the
testers that they use to validate their
50 million keystroke cycles which
doesn't just kind of tap it it hammers
pretty hard hammers pretty hard and then
they cranked up the humidity in it so we
could get this awesome footage of one of
their testers running on
what switches were they were they mx
blacks i think so i think they were mx
blacks of just this thing being hammered
at in the frost in the cold
absolutely insane the craziest machine
in my opinion was the temperature shock
machine so it goes from i believe it was
70 degrees the test that they were
running it could be more drastic than
this but the test that they were running
at the point in time was 70 degrees
celsius in the chamber up top and then
there would be an elevator that took
five seconds which would bring it down
into a separate chamber down below which
was negative 20 degrees and it had to be
able to not like crack and yeah not have
the solder just yeah fail just
completely give up which is pretty
intense actually
so in the next room we found the most
expensive piece of equipment on this
entire trip that i almost broke
it has a joystick and he went a little
bit arcade machine on it but it was okay
i was driving that thing so if you've
ever seen like a really big warehouse
and you see that crane that's on the big
rail at the top that can move pretty
much wherever it wants basically like
that it's pretty much what it was but
much faster when you when you're really
going when you reef on the joystick yeah
so it's it's just an actuation point but
you can program on the computer how you
want it to move so you can check out
different batches of switches compared
against each other so they'd go through
the environmental testing that we'd seen
earlier or it would be say something
that had just been pressed 50 million
times versus something that hadn't or
anything that you want to compare and
you test a batch of switches and the
idea is that you'd look at the exact
force required to press it down and then
pull it back up and then you'd also be
looking at where the actuation point was
for the switch and the idea is that
you'd want to see as much consistency as
possible within a batch and then as much
consistency as possible after 50 million
so after 50 million keystrokes it should
have either
not gotten
that much worse or gotten better
and the funny thing about cherry is that
their whole well
our key switches are validated for 50
million thing is based on this whereas i
don't think we really have any assurance
of what
up to
let's say for example 60 million
keystrokes means
right does that mean it performs the
same or better or it still actually
functions at all and cherry actually has
testing up to 100 million they just
wouldn't show us those numbers not show
us those numbers guessing they're not
quite as perfect anymore at that point
so the switch we saw on the last piece
had a clear housing so we can tell it's
an mx rgb so that's from the corsair's
corsair gaming
rgb line of keyboards but one of the
coolest things about the rgb keyboards
is actually that the way the leds are
embedded in the pcb
instead of in the housing for the key
switch makes them less prone to failure
due to esd but of course there are other
electrostatic discharge concerns as well
so this was a pretty cool piece of
scientific equipment what's this thing
do 8 000 volts over 8 000 volts so many
volts so he would he would charge up a
metal plate that was on the table and
then make sure very confidently make
sure that there was no
electrostatic charge going from the
table up through the keyboard so he was
just typing on it and the keyboard has
to operate aside from not zapping the
person who's using it operate flawlessly
so he's using the keyboard while
charging the tape with the metal table
with 8000 volts and then he would take
the
8000 volt conductor and put it right on
the keyboard and have to be able to
continue using the keyboard with no
faults no glove or anything just using
the keyboard well okay they did say that
even though it's quite painful it's not
going to you're not going to be serious
very low amperage very low current it's
not going to really hurt anybody
although i asked actually i don't know
if you're there for that
yeah i asked him do you ever like sneak
up behind anyone and give them the 8 000
volts oh yeah oh yeah
so cherry takes keyboards very seriously
but they can still have some fun yeah
apparently
so we got to see cherry's first
mechanical keyboard which was cool made
with m8 switches you what nate
anyways
it was designed so that when making a
newspaper instead of individually
placing each one of the letters onto
this giant grid so they could mass print
newspaper you just typed it up you could
type it in which was revolutionary
bizarro land keyboard ever
all the weirdest keys all the go
switches
go that way go this way go possibly both
ways and apparently spacebar stabilizers
spacebar stabilizers didn't really seem
to be a thing i don't know if those
maybe were in there at the beginning and
then were taken out but fell out they
were definitely not a thing when i was
trying it that was it was really heavy
too yeah
full metal construction around the whole
thing so with the with the original
keyboard out of the way we asked very
very nicely if we would be allowed into
the cherry mx production area and they
were very kind about saying no yeah they
uh they they wanted to protect their
trade secrets you know all the
improvements that they've made to cherry
mx key switches over the over the years
that have been not quite copied
correctly by anyone who might be trying
to copy the design they didn't want
anyone to look at that so uh
yeah yeah anyway so we were able to make
a compromise of being able to check out
the actual keyboard yeah so first we got
geared up this is my first time wearing
an esd lab coat and electrostatic
sandals yeah
yeah so you take this little
electrostatic strap and put it under
your under your shoe and then into your
sock or in this case under here i prefer
to call them electrostatic sandals but
sure whatever whatever you want to call
it and then this was really cool now
cherry was telling us this production
line is actually 20 years old yeah so
this is far from the state of the art
that we might find in some of the top
secret areas so it starts with the crazy
robot arm and i mean i was blown away
when you told me this line is 20 years
old yeah and is like nothing to do with
the advancedness of some of the other
more top secret lines because this arm
like picks up the keyboards top half
bottom half puts them on the line and
then it all scooches to the right
to the right to the right oh no anyways
these ones it didn't it didn't require
individual keycap placement so we didn't
get to see some of the stations running
yeah he said it was a lot cooler earlier
in the day but these this is like a
special order for the german government
so all the key caps were sort of
pre-assembled um so it skipped a lot of
the stations but what's cool is that the
stations automatically know if a step
doesn't need to be done
automation and they just don't do it yep
so it went through and then the next
stage actually that we did get to see
was it testing all the switches so this
giant machine that was pre-aligned for
every single one of the keycaps would go
down and press every single button just
to make sure it worked and i didn't
quite believe it when cherry told us at
first that every single product was 100
tested because i kind of went really
that's too much man but they are and we
even saw a keyboard fail yeah yeah we
got to see one fail so the next station
which was the laser engraving station
that was so cool that which was like the
coolest thing ever like
two individual lasers going insanely
fast although apparently slow because
apparently it's a ten-year-old laser
engraver and it's much slower than all
their other ones but seemed really fast
to me
would go through and engrave all the
keycaps unless it failed so when we saw
that one going through production fail
it skipped the laser engraving station
there was a big red light that went off
very serious business someone ran over
and pulled it off the line inspected it
manually notice that apparently the
machine told them the space bar failed
so they found that it was the
stabilizing wire
below the space bar which was actually
not aligned properly so he aligned it
properly manually put it back at the
beginning of the assembly process and it
went through all the testing again when
it passed then it got laser engraved and
then it went to packaging very cool i
mean i think the thing that stood out
most to me about the entire cherry tour
was the obsessive attention to detail
and quality testing validation
for secondary validation for something
that i just completely took for granted
yeah until i saw what goes into the
amount of science the amount of
everything that goes into these little
tiny switches
so i guess i guess that's pretty much it
huge thanks to cherry for letting us
really take a look under the kimono so
to speak of their manufacturing process
thanks to you guys for watching like
this video if you liked it dislike it if
you disliked it leave a comment letting
us know would you like to see more of
this kind of behind the scenes
factory and and product validation
coverage from us please let us know
because otherwise we don't know what you
want to see um guys check out the video
description for a link to buy a cool
t-shirt like the ones i normally wear
you can also give us a monthly
contribution or change your amazon
bookmarked one with our affiliate code
whenever you buy keyboards or whatever
else it is you buy thanks again for
watching and as always don't forget to
subscribe thanks a lot